= fiveruns-dash-sensor

Please see http://dash.fiveruns.com for an overview of the Dash service.

== Summary

Sensor provides a mechanism for "external" monitoring of infrastructure with Dash.
Since Dash is usually embedded within an application (i.e. internal), there's no easy
way to monitor things like Apache, memcached, or other pieces.  Sensor is designed to
be installed on a machine and upload metrics for any infrastructure on that machine.
The user just needs to configure which elements they want to monitor.

== Installation

gem install fiveruns-dash-sensor -s http://gems.github.com

== Configuration

When you run 'fiveruns-dash-sensor' for the first time, it will create a blank
configuration for you in ~/.fiveruns-dash-sensor/config.rb.  You will need to edit
this file with your app token and activate the plugins for your environment.  Once
done, you should be able to restart 'fiveruns-dash-sensor' for a few minutes to verify 
everything is working as designed.  If there are no problems, you can run
'fiveruns-dash-sensor -d' to spin off the daemon into the background and forget about it.

== Command Summary

  fiveruns-dash-sensor --help

Sensor allows you to control OS-specific parameters like log file and PID file location,
the user and group to run as, etc.  -d will start Sensor as a daemon.  To stop it, just
kill the associated PID.

== Creating your own Plugins

Sensor allows you to create your own custom plugins for your own infrastructure.  Each
plugin should reside in ~/.fiveruns-dash-sensor/<name>.rb and config.rb should have an
entry in it like this:

  sensor.plugin :<name>, any options here...

Please see the existing plugins for examples of how your code should work.


== License

  # (The FiveRuns License)
  #
  # Copyright (c) 2009 FiveRuns Corporation
  # 
  # Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
  # a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
  # 'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
  # without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
  # distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
  # permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
  # the following conditions:
  # 
  # The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
  # included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
  # 
  # THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
  # EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
  # MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
  # IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
  # CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
  # TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
  # SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
